AUTH-441/AUTH-325: Implement helm upgrade and write documentation for it (#113)
Alfresco/alfresco-identity-service: README.md

2. Choose the [sample realm](./alfresco-realm.json) file and click the "Create" button.

> ## Upgrading from Identity Service 1.1

Reviewer: Can we be more specific here? 

> ## Upgrading from Identity Service 1.1 to 1.2

  **_NOTE:_** The upgrade of the Alfresco Identity Management Service requires downtime. 

>   This means that no person will be able to connect to any of the Alfresco applications while the upgrade or rollback is being done.

Reviewer: the Alfresco applications -> the DBP components ?

### General upgrade procedure

> For upgrading Alfresco Identity Management Service we are mainly following the keycloak upgrade procedure.

Reviewer: keycloak -> Keycloak

> We will be explaining how to do it if you are using the our distribution and kubernetes deployment out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be explaining how to do it if you are using ours out of the box distribution or Kubernetes deployment.
```

> However depending on the enviroment You are using you should follow the next steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However depending on the environment you are using you should follow the next steps:
```

> However depending on the environment you are using you should follow the next steps:

Reviewer 2: > ... follow these high-level steps:

> 1. Prior to applying the upgrade, handle any open transactions and delete the data/tx-object-store/ transaction directory.

Reviewer 2: Should we add any additional detail on how to handle open transactions or link to the Keycloak docs on that?

Author: I added in a link to user session management page.

2. Back up the old installation (configuration, themes, and so on).

3. Back up the database. For detailed information on how to back up the database, see the documentation for the relational database you are using.

4. Upgrade Keycloak server.

   - Testing the upgrade in a non-production environment first, to prevent any installation issues from being exposed in production, is a best practice.

   - Be aware that after the upgrade the database will no longer be compatible with the old server

   - Ensure the upgraded server is functional before upgrading adapters in production.

5. If you need to revert the upgrade, first restore the old installation, and then restore the database from the backup copy.

6. Upgrade the adapters.

> Within the next sections we will go trough a simple distribution and kubernetes upgrade plus rollback.

Reviewer 2: through

Reviewer 2: Capitalize Kubernetes

>   **_NOTE:_** In depth documentation on keycloak upgrade can be found here -> https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/upgrading/index.html#_upgrading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **_NOTE:_** In depth documentation on keycloak upgrade can be found [here](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/upgrading/index.html#_upgrading).
```

>   **_NOTE:_** In depth documentation on keycloak upgrade can be found [here](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/upgrading/index.html#_upgrading).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  **_NOTE:_** In depth documentation on Keycloak upgrade can be found [here](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/upgrading/index.html#_upgrading).
```

>   **_NOTE:_** In depth documentation on keycloak upgrade can be found [here](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/upgrading/index.html#_upgrading).

Reviewer 2: Capitalize Keycloak

### Kubernetes

#### Generic Information

> To do the upgrade in kubernetes we are taking advantage of kubernetes jobs and helm hooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do the upgrade in Kubernetes we are taking advantage of Kubernetes jobs and Helm hooks.
```

These are the steps we are following for a smooth upgrade transition without any manual intervention:

> 1. Pre-Upgrade job is running to remove the keycloak statefulset, thus killing of any existent user session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Pre-Upgrade job is running to remove the Keycloak statefulset, thus killing off any existent user session.
```

> 2. Pre-Upgrade job is running to create an extra volume for backing up the postgres db.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Pre-Upgrade job is running to create an extra volume for backing up the PostgreSQL database.
```

> 3. Pre-Upgrade job to do the backup of the db.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Pre-Upgrade job to do the backup of the database.
```

> 4. Pre-Upgrade job do delete the db deployment so that it does not clash with the new db

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Pre-Upgrade job to delete the database deployment so that it does not clash with the new database.
```

> 5. Post-Upgrade job to scale the new keycloak to 0 replicas so we can restore the db initially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Post-Upgrade job to scale the new Keycloak to 0 replicas so we can restore the database initially.
```

> 6. Post-Upgrade job to restore the db data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Post-Upgrade job to restore the database data.
```

> 7. Post-Upgrade job to re-scale keycloak back to 1 replica so that it can start using the new data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Post-Upgrade job to re-scale Keycloak back to 1 replica so that it can start using the new data.
```

> This process leaves us with an additional volume containing the db backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process leaves us with an additional volume containing the database backup.
```

That volume will be used in the case a rollback is done but will be deleted when the entire release is being deleted.

For the rollback process we are using the following jobs:

1. Pre-rollback job to kill off the current statefulsets.

> 2. Post-rollback job to scale keycloak to 0 replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Post-rollback job to scale Keycloak to 0 replicas.
```

> 3. Post-rollback job to restore the db from backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Post-rollback job to restore the database from backup.
```

> 4. Post-rollback job to scale keycloak to 1 replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Post-rollback job to scale Keycloak to 1 replica.
```

#### How to upgrade

  **_NOTE:_** This upgrade works only from 1.1 to 1.2 version of the Alfresco Identity Management Service .

1. Identify your infrastructure chart deployment and save it in a variable.

```bash
export RELEASENAME=knobby-wolf
```

2. Run the helm upgrade command using the new version of the infrastructure chart that contains Alfresco Identity Management Service 1.2

```bash

> helm upgrade $RELEASENAME alfresco-stable/alfresco-infrastructure

Reviewer: Maybe we should specify the version of the infrastructure chart?

Author: Actually I wanted to do that but I don't know for sure the version of infra that will go here. and it could very well be multiple versions so I left it like this on purpose. The important thing is though that the version of identity contained in infra is 1.2.

Reviewer: Latest version of infrastructure that is in stable is 4.1.1 and it does not contain AIMS 1.2. So currently this statement is wrong.

Author: i added 5.2.0 info and incubator.

> helm upgrade $RELEASENAME alfresco-stable/alfresco-infrastructure

Reviewer 2: Hmm, they will likely have a values file, probably from a DBP deployment.

We should at least indicate that they need to reuse values or modify their original values.

If they have deployed via DBP these instructions won't work as we'd be upgrading a DBP release with an infrastructure chart.

Perhaps we should have the instructions tell them to first update the deployment chart that brought in AIMS, i.e. DBP to a version that includes AIMS 1.2.

I think the example can still use infrastructure though.

Author: ... Ok I will leave it like this for now. Added an extra line saying about the DBP chart also.

```

3. A series of jobs will be running to do the upgrade after which you will be able to access the AIMS server at the same location. The AIMS service should be back up in a few minutes.

#### How to Rollback

> 1. If for any reason the upgrade to 1.2 failed or you just want to rollback to 1.1 issue the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If for any reason the upgrade to 1.2 failed or you just want to rollback to 1.1 run the following command:
```

Author: You normally run a program... you issue or execute a command. Soooo... not changing this

For upgrading Alfresco Identity Management Service we are mainly following the Keycloak upgrade procedure.
We will be explaining how to do it if you are using our out of the box distribution or Kubernetes deployment.
However depending on the environment you are using you should follow these high-level steps:

> 1. Prior to applying the upgrade, [handle any open transactions](https://www.keycloak.org/docs/7.0/server_admin/#user-session-management) and delete the data/tx-object-store/ transaction directory.

Reviewer 2: If this is prior to the upgrade we should technically point to 4.8 docs.
